I'm gonna give you some time to try and
implement bubble sort yourself.
So, should be able to click on here if,
I think mine I actually have it open here.
So Come
back here to our code sandbox.
And I want you to work
on bubble sort.test.
And you can go ahead and
delete the .skip here.
get started on that.
You can look here at the test.
You can call it right here, or
you can write all the code here.
As you can see here,
I now have one failed test.
Now, and actually I'll show you how to do
this when we get back after you try this,
but there's a cool little thing
I added here that you can
visualize your sorting happening
as well as it goes on.
And I'll show you how to do this when you
get back but if you wannna give it a shot
right now, you'll put your
bubble sort code here in sort.
And then anytime that you wanna
take a snapshot of the array,
which basically means that
the beginning of every 4 loop.
It'll actually visualize you over time
of how your bubble sort's working,
which is kinda cool.
But I would say do it here, for
us to do it here in the bubble sort here.
Again, let's actually
do that first as well.
In fact, I might just commit that.
Well, stay on page.
If you wanna get rid of all
the console stuff here,
it's under pathfinding and
under the solution and
you just need to log out or
remove the log maze parts.
But I'll do that here in just a second.
So just another kind of pro tip here
as you're doing your code sandboxes.
I tend to leave these skips on here.
Let's do the test out skip
until I'm fairly certain that
I have at least a good first shot.
It's really easy to get infinite loops,
if you're just letting it run.
In fact, I think code sandbox
lets you yeah, actually,
let me show you that as well, that's
probably a useful thing here as well.
This little blue circle up here,
this toggle file watching,
it'll actually just run your code as
you're typing which is kinda slow.
So if you just click on that.
It won't try and
run it every single time that you type,
which is probably a good thing,
especially when you get into recursion,
you can actually crash your browser.
Another kinda pro tip here is if you've
created your own code sandbox account,
you can just save the file before you try
running it, so that if it does crash,
you don't lose all your work.
Also, don't refresh the page.
I probably should have told you all this
maybe a bit sooner but now you know,
coz if you refresh the page, it's gonna
drop all of your changes as well.
Okay.
So first thing here,
is we wanna do create
a variable called swapped.
We'll set that equal to false.
This is just gonna be the, I think
the term for is the sentinel variable.
That as soon as we swap
anything in the array,
that means we have to do another loop,
okay?
Here you can do a while loop, but I never
get to use do loops and whenever I get to
use a do loop, I feel like I must
because I never otherwise use them.
So I'm gonna say do which is
very similar to a while loop.
What's the difference between
a do loop and a while loop?
Well, a do loop always happens at
least once, which in this case,
you always wanna least check
if it's sorted or not, okay?
So I have this do loop here.
And I'm going to say, on the first thing,
swapped equals false.
That's the first thing at the beginning of
every single array, we're going to assume
that nothing has been swapped, and
then we're going to, if something does get
swapped, then we will set swap to true
which will cause it to loop again.
When I say 4, let i equals zero.
I as less than num style
length i++, okay?
And then in here, we're going to say if
numbs of i is greater than nums of i + 1
Then we're gonna swap the numbers
const temp equals nums i,
you could write some function that
does this as well, it's up to you.
Nums i equals nums of i + 1.
Nums of i plus 1 = temp,
and swapped = true.
It's basically it right there.
There are a number of things here that
I could do that could speed this up.
For sure, I tried to write just
the simplest code possible for
you all to understand this.
But a really good exercise for
you to do later is to go and actually,
like, for example, I could track how many
iterations I've been through, right?
And I could have like const iterations and
are actually have to be alette.
And that could do a ++ at
the end of every loop here and
then I could say minus iterations right?
And that would Allow me to do
less than less loop throughs,
I think that could actually
make this even minus one.
I think that actually does work.
But let's actually try and
see if this actually works as it Is, And
we'll click play.
Yeah, I got to return this at the end.
Yeah, thank you.
All right, so let's try that again.
Sometimes it gets unhappy
of That should be working.
But let's go ahead and go take a look
at the solution just to make sure here.
Yeah, and you can see here I mean,
that's basically the code
that I wrote right there.
If you are seeing that
where it doesn't do that,
what I would do is I would just save,
refresh the entire thing cuz again,
code sandbox can find
itself in a bad state.
So, the next thing I kinda
wanna show you here, Is,
let's just go ahead and refresh this.
Bubble sort, you running now?
Yeah, there we go.
Now it is running.
Cool.
All right, so
let's do some fun little
visualization here.
I'm just gonna copy the body
of bubble sort here, and
then I can have this thing
under source called sort.js.
You can actually just come in here and
paste this.
And I'm gonna uncomment
these snapshots right here.
And let's just call this nums.
All right, so now if I go over here and
browser, Okay?
And then they come in here into sort,
you can actually visualize
what's going on here.
So the one thing this will do for
you is actually do duplicates for you, so
as long as you just, so if I call snapshot
multiple times in a row with the same
array, it'll cut it out so you can
only see what happens when it swaps.
So you can see I took 71 snapshots
by putting a snapshot here and
then one of the ends just
to get the final product.
And it actually only got
22 unique snapshots.
But you can see here, the nine bubbles up,
the eight bubbles up the seven bubbles up,
right?
And you can kind of see that bubble
sort kinda working over time.
Or I mean,
we can do make this even bigger.
This will be pretty ineffective.
You can see I kinda made it unhappy cuz
this is what happens when you use n
squared algorithms.
I've actually locked up my browser.
That's how inefficient this this sword is.
There we go.
It's also a lot of react rendering.
You can see here this took
almost 9000 snapshots.
And it has to have 2555 unique snapshots.
You can see here the 97
bubbles up until it finds 100,
then it finds 99,
that's gonna bubble up until it finds 100
99 actually is the biggest cuz
it's going from that to 100.
You can look how long
this this rendering is.
But it's kinda pretty to watch all
the colors kinda come together, right?
Anyway, I think it's cool.
>> In the f check there, are you
intentionally going out of bounds and
relying on a number greater
than undefined will be false?
>> Yeah, so
the question is here on line 13.
This obviously at some point is
going to go out of bounds and
it just ends up working okay,
so I just never bothered fixing
it coz really only pops to go outside
the array once and it doesn't.
But you totally could say and no,
this is gonna try and re render again.
>> You could just start the for
loop from i = 1 and
do the check with i and i- 1.
>> Yep, there's a lot of ways
you could handle that and
that would totally be fine as well.
So anyway, I found this kinda fun.
Feel free to to play around with this.
This will work for
all of the basically non recursive sorts.
So this will work with
like the radix sort.
This will work with selection or
insertion, all those sorts.